[Term Entry] C++ Maps: begin() (#6670)
Codecademy/docs: content/cpp/concepts/maps/terms/begin/begin.md

---
Title: '.begin()'
Description: 'Returns an iterator to the first element in a map container.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Iterators'
  - 'Map'
  - 'Sort'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`.begin()`** function is a built-in method in the C++ Standard Template Library (STL) used to retrieve an iterator pointing to the first element in a `std::map` container. This method is essential for accessing and traversing the elements stored in a map.
> 
> The `.begin()` method returns an iterator that provides access to the first key-value pair in the map, determined by the map's sorting criterion. Maps in C++ store elements in a sorted order based on their keys, and `.begin()` gives access to the element that comes first in this order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.begin()`** function is a built-in method in the C++ Standard Template Library (STL) that retrieves an iterator pointing to the first element in a [`std::map`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/maps) container. This method is essential for accessing and traversing the elements stored in a map.

The `.begin()` method returns an iterator that provides access to the first key-value pair in the map, determined by the map's sorting criterion. Maps in C++ store elements in a sorted order based on their keys, and `.begin()` gives access to the element that comes first in this order.
```

  };

  // Access the first element using begin()
  auto firstElement = studentNames.begin();

  // Print the first key-value pair
  std::cout << "First student ID: " << firstElement->first << std::endl;
  std::cout << "First student name: " << firstElement->second << std::endl;

  return 0;
}
```

This example results in the following output:

```shell
First student ID: 101
First student name: Alice
```

## Example 2: Traversing a Map Using `.begin()` and `.end()`

This example shows how to traverse all elements in a map using the `.begin()` method alongside [`.end()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/maps/end):

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <map>
#include <string>

int main() {
  // Create a map of country codes and their names
  std::map<std::string, std::string> countryCodes = {
    {"US", "United States"},
    {"UK", "United Kingdom"},
    {"FR", "France"},
    {"DE", "Germany"},
    {"JP", "Japan"}
  };

  // Traverse the map using begin() and end()
  std::cout << "Country codes and names:" << std::endl;
  for (auto it = countryCodes.begin(); it != countryCodes.end(); ++it) {
    std::cout << it->first << ": " << it->second << std::endl;
  }

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
